These are some SQL tips I've found illustrate concepts to interns/coworkers over
time. Most of them will be Oracle specific, since that is what I use daily at 
work. However, most of the concepts will likely translate with a tweak in syntax.

1. As a newbie, utilize the *metadata* views that are provided by Oracle

The metadata tables will let you query how data is laid out within the database. 
For instance, what tables are in the `hr` schema? 

    select * from dba_tables where owner = 'HR';

This may appear trivial, but there are many specialized dba views that come in 
very handy if you know to look for them before you start off on the wrong path. 

**Examples**

How many of each type of object does user *jomccr* own? 

    select y.owner, y.object_type, count(1) 
    from dba_objects y 
    where owner = 'JOMCCR'
    group by y.owner, y.object_type
    ;

Sometimes at work, a user will ask that we cancel a poorly written query. Such 
as a massive delete statement with no where clause. In Oracle, deletes, inserts, 
updates, etc are stored as a transaction that you are able to roll-back if need 
be. Most of the time this allows you to investigate the "aftermath" of your 
changes before *committing* them to the database. 

    delete from retail_dm.merchandise_tb; 
    where transaction_id = 1234
    ;

If you didn't notice the typo, the semicolon after the table name tells Oracle 
to delete everything in the table. If the table is sufficiently large and the 
query runs for long enough, whenever you cancel the delete, the system begins 
the rollback process. 

In order to see how much data is left to roll-back, we can do something like the 
query below.

    select
      count(s.sid) as sid_count,
      sum(used_ublk), -- # of undo blocks used
      round(sum(used_ublk) * 32768 / (1024 * 1024) ,2) as used_undo_mb,
      s.sql_id
    from v$transaction t
    join v$session s on t.addr=s.taddr
    where used_urec > 1
    group by s.sql_id
    ;

You could then use the `sql_id` to find the query in `v$sql` like so (or join).

    select * from v$sql where sql_id = '...';

That is all I have time to share for now. I'll keep making updates to this page 
with other snippets as I find them. 

Thanks

